Add `Pending Cup × Community Charting Contest 2026` news post (#15186)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2026/2026-08-21-pending-cup-x-community-charting-contest-2026.md

---
layout: post
title: Pending Cup × Community Charting Contest 2026
date: 2026-08-21 12:00:00 +0000
series: community_contests
---

> It's been a year loaded with beatmapping contests, but brace yourselves for yet another one! *…or two?*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's been a year loaded with beatmapping contests, but brace yourselves for yet another one! *...or two?*
```

![](/wiki/shared/news/2026-08-21-pending-cup-x-community-charting-contest-2026/banner.jpg)

The longest-running annual beatmapping contest, Pending Cup, and the newly rebranded Community Charting Contest are collaborating to bring you one of the biggest contests ever! 

> **This year, it’s an all-custom song contest!**

Reviewer: it's a mapping contest tho

```suggestion
**This year, it's a contest with all original songs!**
```

After building experience and becoming a reputable mania mode contest, Community Charting Contest has rebranded from [Chinese Charting Contest](/wiki/Contests/CCC) to invite international participants to join us in this incredible event for the first time ever, hosted by ::{ flag=CN }:: [Breakrio](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1653229) and ::{ flag=CN }:: [gzdongsheng](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8660315).

Read on for all the info. For our Chinese contestants: [点击此处查看中文版主题。](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/2233834?n=1)

<style>
    .osu-md__header--2 {
      margin-top: 40px;
    }
</style>

## ![Schedule](/wiki/shared/news/2026-08-21-pending-cup-x-community-charting-contest-2026/schedule_banner.jpg) {#schedule}

| Event | Dates |
| --: | :-- |
| Beatmapping (2 months) | August 21, 2026 – October 21, 2026 (15:59 UTC) |
| Judging (1.5 months) | October 22, 2026 – December 6, 2026 |
| Results (1 week) | December 21, 2026 |

*Beatmapping and judging phase deadlines are subject to change.*

## ![Songs](/wiki/shared/news/2026-08-21-pending-cup-x-community-charting-contest-2026/songs_banner.jpg) {#songs}

> 

Reviewer: full width audio players

```suggestion

<style>
    .osu-md--news .audio-player {
        max-width: inherit;
    }
</style>

```

> This year, we've gone all out and are bringing in 3 custom songs, each by a renowned artist. Instead of having three different categories like previous Pending Cup formats, this year we are categorising by track only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This year, we've gone all out and are bringing in 3 custom-made songs, each by a renowned artist. Instead of having three different categories like previous Pending Cup formats, this year we are categorising by track only.
```

> Download the beatmap template for any one of these songs, read the rules in the [forum](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/2233835?n=1), then start mapping!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download the beatmap template for any one of these songs, read the rules in the [forum thread](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/2233835?n=1), then start mapping!
```

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="audio link">
    </audio>
</div>

Noctua by siraph is a slow-burning piece that rewards mappers who think in texture rather than density. Running at 166 BPM in an uncommon 6/4, the track builds its momentum from a wide, unhurried pulse before pulling the ground from under you with a 5/4 interlude at its midpoint. This metric reset turns the familiar melody into something quietly disorienting, offering a rare opportunity for rhythmic reinterpretation before switching right back to the groove. Annabel's vocals float above the arrangement with the restrained melancholy she's known for, tracing imagery of night, flight, and half-remembered warmth, while the instrumental swells and recedes beneath her in long, deliberate arcs. The result is a track that invites patience, emphasising phrasing over spam and catching the emotional moments of the song. If you are a mapper drawn to atmosphere, unconventional time signatures, and the challenge of making restraint feel expressive, Noctua is waiting for you. *— seros*

### Track 2

> | Song | Tedjimo yomigY - Acacia |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Song | [Tedjimo yomigY](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/223) - Acacia |
```

| --: | :-- |
| Genre | Hi-Tech Hardcore |
| Download | [Beatmap template (2:34 / 170 BPM)](template link) |

![](/wiki/shared/news/2026-08-21-pending-cup-x-community-charting-contest-2026/v0id_bg.jpg)

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="audio link">
    </audio>
</div>

V0iD's Syabaritious Sensoriam is an absolute auditory feast you simply cannot miss, packed with endless variations and distinct flavours at a blistering 170 BPM. The atmospheric yet chaotic vibes of the intro and outro perfectly contrast with the rhythmic groove and dynamic flow brought by the diverse sound decorations in the main body, creating a track rich in layered details and massive mapping potential. The occasional rhythmic shifts and the standout piano melody in the climax infuse this seemingly conventional structure with unconventional energy. If you are a mapper who loves to showcase your unique style and technical skills, and possesses a nuanced understanding of various musical elements, this track will be your perfect canvas. *— Breakrio*

## ![Prizes](/wiki/shared/news/2026-08-21-pending-cup-x-community-charting-contest-2026/prizes_banner.jpg) {#prizes}

> Cash prizes will be distributed to participants who achieve the top 3 in each track in a 6:3:2 ratio, divided between the 2 modes: osu! and osu! mania, along with other rewards depending on sponsorship and approval:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cash prizes will be distributed to participants who achieve the top 3 in each track in a 6:3:2 ratio, divided between the 2 modes, osu! and osu!mania, along with other rewards depending on prize contributions and Contest Committee approval:
```

| Placement | Prizes |
| :-: | :-- |
| 1st | 18% of the mode's cash prize pool, 4 months of osu!supporter, profile badge (tentative), [contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |
| 2nd | 9% of the mode's cash prize pool, 2 months of osu!supporter, [contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |
| 3rd | 6% of the mode's cash prize pool, 1 month of osu!supporter, [contest points](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points) |

*Contest points are distributed according to the final entry count. [See the wiki for more information.](/wiki/Contests/Contest_points)

---

> Feel free to join our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/VZQGhwYvJ5) to receive news and future updates. For detailed rules and information, please refer to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Feel free to join our [Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/VZQGhwYvJ5) to receive news and future updates. For detailed rules and information, please refer to the following:
```

<style>
    .osu-md__header--2 {
      margin-top: 40px;
    }
</style>

## ![Schedule](/wiki/shared/news/2026-08-21-pending-cup-x-community-charting-contest-2026/schedule_banner.jpg) {#schedule}

| Event | Dates |
| --: | :-- |
| Beatmapping (2 months) | August 21, 2026 – October 21, 2026 (15:59 UTC) |
| Judging (1.5 months) | October 22, 2026 – December 6, 2026 |
| Results (1 week) | December 21, 2026 |

*Beatmapping and judging phase deadlines are subject to change.*

## ![Songs](/wiki/shared/news/2026-08-21-pending-cup-x-community-charting-contest-2026/songs_banner.jpg) {#songs}

<style>
    .osu-md--news .audio-player {
        max-width: inherit;
    }
</style>

This year, we've gone all out and are bringing in 3 custom-made songs, each by a renowned artist. Instead of having three different categories like previous Pending Cup formats, this year we are categorising by track only.

Download the beatmap template for any one of these songs, read the rules in the [forum thread](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/2233835?n=1), then start mapping!

### Track 1

> | Song | siraph - Noctua |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### siraph - Noctua

|  |  |
```

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="audio link">
    </audio>
</div>

> Noctua by siraph is a slow-burning piece that rewards mappers who think in texture rather than density. Running at 166 BPM in an uncommon 6/4, the track builds its momentum from a wide, unhurried pulse before pulling the ground from under you with a 5/4 interlude at its midpoint. This metric reset turns the familiar melody into something quietly disorienting, offering a rare opportunity for rhythmic reinterpretation before switching right back to the groove.
>
> [Annabel's](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/234) vocals float above the arrangement with the restrained melancholy she's known for, tracing imagery of night, flight, and half-remembered warmth, while the instrumental swells and recedes beneath her in long, deliberate arcs. The result is a track that invites patience, emphasising phrasing over spam and catching the emotional moments of the song.
>
> If you are a mapper drawn to atmosphere, unconventional time signatures, and the challenge of making restraint feel expressive, Noctua is waiting for you.

> *— seros*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
—seros
```

### Track 2

> | Song | [Tedjimo yomigY](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/223) - Acacia |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### [Tedjimo yomigY](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/223) - Acacia

|  |  |
```

| --: | :-- |
| Genre | Jazz |
| Download | [Beatmap template (2:36 / 178 BPM)](template link) |

![](/wiki/shared/news/2026-08-21-pending-cup-x-community-charting-contest-2026/acacia_bg.jpg)

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="audio link">
    </audio>
</div>

> Acacia by Tedjimo yomigY is a typical jazz song that you would expect from this artist. With a mid-tempo groove at 178 BPM, this song has some quite memorable sections, such as the opening piano main melody, which makes multiple recapitulations throughout the song. After the midpoint, the frequent and intense transitions between different percussions, along with the constantly shifting instruments that shape the melody, are also sure to excite rhythm game enthusiasts.
>
> It is also worth mentioning that the whole song, nearly everywhere, gives a strong vibe of fluctuation, driven by its unorthodox rhythm structures and the complex combinations of various musical elements, leaving tremendous room for the mappers to explore creative layerings.
>
> Whether you are a jazz lover or a mapper skilled at refining the main body from numerous elements, this song will be a good chance!

> *— gzdongsheng*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
—gzdongsheng
```

### Track 3

> | Song | V0iD - Syabaritious Sensoriam |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### V0iD - Syabaritious Sensoriam

|  |  |
```

| --: | :-- |
| Genre | Hi-Tech Hardcore |
| Download | [Beatmap template (2:34 / 170 BPM)](template link) |

![](/wiki/shared/news/2026-08-21-pending-cup-x-community-charting-contest-2026/v0id_bg.jpg)

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="audio link">
    </audio>
</div>

> V0iD's Syabaritious Sensoriam is an absolute auditory feast you simply cannot miss, packed with endless variations and distinct flavours at a blistering 170 BPM. The atmospheric yet chaotic vibes of the intro and outro perfectly contrast with the rhythmic groove and dynamic flow brought by the diverse sound decorations in the main body, creating a track rich in layered details and massive mapping potential. The occasional rhythmic shifts and the standout piano melody in the climax infuse this seemingly conventional structure with unconventional energy.
>
> If you are a mapper who loves to showcase your unique style and technical skills, and possesses a nuanced understanding of various musical elements, this track will be your perfect canvas.

> *— Breakrio*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
—Breakrio
```
